# Subway Network 2.0 (Lion053)

***************************
Introductury Note
***************************

*This is the successor of the Subway Network mod. If you have not used it you can skip this section.*
*For all the others: In addition to some new content, the way how the buildings and buffs work, has changed. Hence the upload as a new mod, it avoids mod.io's auto-update.*
*I recommend to read through the changelog. As this mod disables the previous versions automatically it is savegame compatible.*

## Changelog

**v2.0**

- Adds a Steampunk skin for the large Subway Station.
- Adds a **Subway Depot** building, where your subways are sided and maintained (islandwide range). Without this building no subway station will function anymore. You´ll get a hint in each subway station's UI if sth is off in that regard. When you first load your save with this mod enabled, an engineer will offer you a construction quest just to be sure you don't forget to build one. The depot requires 'tools' as input good. The more subway stations you have on an island, the higher the workload (= productivity) of the depot.
- Rework of the **MTD-mechanic**: There are still 4 different levels (Modest, Ordinary, Remarkable and Superior Subway Network). But technically all level-buffs are now directly generated by the Subway Stations. This means: Buffs are now only spread to their targets if the stations are working. When you build a certain amount of stations on an island, the next upgrade-stage of the MTD unlocks (only unlocked per island now). You will recieve a quest each time a MTD is ready for an upgrade, which should make it easier not to overlook it. After you upgraded the MTD, the Subway Stations provide the corresponding higher level-buffs; information about the buffs is displayed when you hover over the output icon in the UI of a Subway Station.
- Additionally to buffs on residences and public services, all factories in range of a subway station are now also affected (with increased productivity). Yes, your residents are now more punctual at their workplaces xD. This replaces the former buff on working conditions.
- Rework the **Material Testing & Development module**: It is now an item-container-building, which comes with 3 already socketed action items. Each replaces a certain input of other modules to a more difficult one, in return they provide powerful buffs to them. To activate an item, you have to click on it. To deactivate, click on it again (visual and auditory feedback). To relocate the building, you have to deactivate the items first. In warehouses / kontors you can get rid of redundant items by clicking on them.
- QoL: You can change the visual appearance of higher stages to the visual appearance of lower stages (Ctrl V) (no more obligation to build a huge skyscraper)
- QoL: Subway Stations can be paused manually
- QoL: Changed the icons of the Electric Cable Factory, Motor Factory and Warehouse to vanilla icons
- QoL: Compatibility with unlimited resource cheats / trainers
- Fix: No more double factory entries in the statistics menu for Electric Cable Factory, Motor Factory and Pressworks
- Some rebalanced values here and there
- Includes: a small elevator factory which is located next to the Subway Network icon (or if HighLife-DLC is active, inside the regular elevator chain).
- Includes: a small tools factory which is located in Artisans tab (only active if Jakob's tools factory is not active).
- Requirements: Due to the changes, no DLC is required anymore. Some optional Subway Factory modules still require dlc-products though.

***************************
End of Introductory Note
***************************

Establish a subway network in your metropolises.

- Unlocks at 7.000 investors.
- Menu Location: Tab "Investors" next to *Steam Carriages* and Tab "Public Services" next to the *Members Club*.
- By default, Engineers and Investors demand a Subway Network. With *I-mod-your-Anno* you can activate the demand for Workers, Artisans and Scholars as well.

## How a subway network is supposed to work

1. Build a Metropolitan Transport Department (MTD). Once built, all other buildings of this mod get unlocked.
2. Build a Subway Depot. Supply it with Tools.
3. Produce Subways with the Subway Factory and its modules.
4. Produce Tickets with the Tickets Recipe Factory.
5. Build midsize or large Subway Stations. Every station is a monument with 2 phases.
6. Supply your finished stations with Subways, Tickets and Lightbulbs. Output will be the public service "Subway".
7. Upgrade your MTD after reaching a certain number of subway stations (quest tells you when and where) to get access to better level-buffs.

## Installation

- Subscribe on mod.io
- Or manually: Unzip this modfile and drag it into your Anno 1800 mods directory.

## Deinstallation

- This mod can be removed from your savegame at any time.
- Unsubscribe on mod.io or remove the mod file from your mods directory.


## Details (not necessary to read through it, but you might have a look at it, when you have questions)

### Metropolitan Transport Department (MTD):

- One department per island is allowed.
- There are 3 upgrade stages, which are unlocked at 5, 10 and 15 stations (per island). When a MTD is ready for an upgrade, you recieve a quest, so you can't miss it. To upgrade, you have to use the upgrade tool from your tool-bar.
- Each stage enables a certain Subway Network Level (4 in total: default + 3 upgrades). Each Level comes with certain buffs. These buffs are spreaded by the Subway Stations.
- You can change the visual appearance of higher stages to the visual appearance of lower stages if you want (default hotkey is Ctrl V).
- If you demolish all of your departments (globally), all mod buildings will be locked in the menu, until you build a department again.

### Subway Stations:

- Midsize and Large Subway Stations mainly differ in tile size: 3x3 vs. 3x5. Range and buffs are the same.
- Once their monument stages are finished and they are supplied with their demanded input goods, they provide their public service and buffs within their street range.
- There are 11 skins available for the large subway station and 6 skins for the midsize subway station.
- You may want to give your stations a name in the UI (default is Baker Street; random dice is deactivated)

### Subway Factory and its Modules:

The Subway Factory produces Subways from Motors, Glass and Steel. It can be used as a stand-alone building or in combination with modules.
Subway Fctory Modules require workforce and cost maintenance, some of them additionally require input goods. In return modules provide certain buffs within radius and / or output goods:

1. Factory Entrance Module: Input (Police Equipment) = Output (when processing: Buff on subway factory and modules)
2. Administration Office Module: Input (Telephones, Typewrighters, Paper) = Output (when processing: Buff on subway factory and modules)
3. Material Development Module: Presocketed action-items, which can be (de)activated by the player = Changes inputs of other modules to more complicated ones, in return provides buffs.
4. Pressworks Module: Input (Steel, Tallow) = Output (Metal Sheets) + (when processing: Buff on subway factory + change its input from Steel to Metal Sheets)
5. Cable Factory Module: Input (Copper, Caoutchouc) = Output (Cables) + (when processing: Buff on subway Factory)
6. Motor Assembly Plant Module: Input (Cables, Glass, Steel) = Output (Motors) + (when processing: Buff on subway factory)
7. Warehouse Module: 4 transporter slots, +25 tons storage capacity
8. All other Modules: No Input = Output (Buff on subway factory)

For some modules there are skins available. In most cases the only difference is, whether the building adapts to terrain height or not.

Exception: For the "Connection Tower" module there are variations available instead of a skin to automatically adapt to their neighbor. However this only works for same sized buildings. If the tile size is different, place the tower and all the neighbors first, then select the "Connection Tower" with the "Relocate Tool" and just drop it again. The tower module has now adapted to the neighbors.

### Printing Factory:

- Tickets can be produced by three different recipes. All of them require paper, which can be produced in Enbesa (Land of Lions DLC) or in the Old World via the Advanced Paper Mill mod(included in this mod). The recipes differ in the used pigment / dye (Coal, Indigo (Land of Lions DLC) or Mineral Pigments (New World Rising DLC)).
- Three skins with a different wall and roof color are available per recipe.

